Add Simple pipelines to doc website repo. (#1941)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/simple-pipelines.md

---
layout: default
title: Simple pipelines
nav_order: 12
---

This tutorial walks you through creating a simple Data Prepper pipeline and how to configure it.

# Installation

First, install via Docker using the following command:

```
docker pull opensearchproject/data-prepper:latest
```

# Simple configuration

To help you get started, we have a simple configuration which you can use to run Data Prepper. It generates random strings and writes them to stdout. 

Create a Data Prepper configuration file, `data-prepper-config.yaml`, with:

```

> ssl: false

Reviewer: I don't think we want to have documentation with `ssl: false`. We have two options here:

1. Update this to work with SSL true. It should be possible with the default values because Data Prepper includes a demo SSL certificate. So the requests below can probably be made to work against `https://`
2. Add the boilerplate about how this is insecure and should not be used in production. I know I've seen this somewhere on opensearch.org.

Author: Changed to "Note that this is insecure and should not be used in production." until specific boilerplate phrasing can be found. @cmanning09

---
layout: default
title: Simple pipelines
nav_order: 12
---

> # Simple pipelines

Reviewer 2: suggest detailed topic title
maybe "Create a data prepper pipeline" or "Data prepper pipeline"

This tutorial walks you through creating a simple Data Prepper pipeline and how to configure it.

## Installation

> First, install via Docker using the following command:

Reviewer 2: suggestion to remove latinism "via->with" 
"install the data prepper with Docker. . .

```
docker pull opensearchproject/data-prepper:latest
```

## Simple configuration

> To help you get started, we have a simple configuration which you can use to run Data Prepper. It generates random strings and writes them to `stdout`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To help you get started, we have provided a simple configuration that you can use to run Data Prepper. It generates random strings and writes them to `stdout`. 
```

> Create a Data Prepper configuration file, `data-prepper-config.yaml`, with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a Data Prepper configuration file`data-prepper-config.yaml` and include the following line:
```

> Create a Data Prepper configuration file, `data-prepper-config.yaml` and include the following line:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create a Data Prepper configuration file, `data-prepper-config.yaml`, and include the following line:
```

```
ssl: true
```

> Create a Data Prepper pipeline file, `pipelines.yaml`, with:

Reviewer 3: Rather than "with", we need to provide clear direction, as we did on the preceding line.

```
simple-sample-pipeline:
  workers: 2
  delay: "5000"
  source:
    random:
  sink:
    - stdout:
```

> ## Running

Reviewer 2: maybe more detailed title

"Run data prepper"

> Below are examples for running from the Docker image. If you built from source, you need to make some modifications to the example commands.

Reviewer 2: "running data prepper from. . ."

> Below are examples for running Data Prepper from the Docker image. If you built from source, you need to make some modifications to the example commands.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Following are examples of running Data Prepper from the Docker image. If you built from source, you need to make some modifications to the example commands.
```

Reviewer 3: Let's clarify what we mean by "from source". From what source? Use "below" only for physical space or screen descriptions, such as “the outlet below the vent” or “the button below the bar pane.” For orientation within a document, use "following" or "later."

> For Data Prepper 2.0 or after, use this command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For Data Prepper 2.0 or later, use this command:
```

```
docker run --name data-prepper -p 4900:4900 -v ${PWD}/pipelines.yaml:/usr/share/data-prepper/pipelines/pipelines.yaml -v ${PWD} /data-prepper-config.yaml:/usr/share/data-prepper/config/data-prepper-config.yaml opensearchproject/data-prepper:latest
```

> For Data Prepper versions before 2.0, use this command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For Data Prepper versions previous to 2.0, use this command:
```

```
docker run --name data-prepper -p 4900:4900 -v ${PWD}/pipelines.yaml:/usr/share/data-prepper/pipelines.yaml -v ${PWD}/data-prepper-config.yaml:/usr/share/data-prepper/data-prepper-config.yaml opensearchproject/data-prepper:latest
```

> You should see log output and after a few seconds some UUIDs in the output. It should look something like the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You should see log output and, after a few seconds, some UUIDs in the output. It should look something like the following:
```

Reviewer 3: Is the second instance of "output" the correct word, or do we mean "response"?

Author: @natebower Confirmed that it is "output" and not response".

2021-09-30T20:19:47,200 [random-source-pool-0] INFO  org.opensearch.dataprepper.plugins.source.RandomStringSource - Writing to buffer
2021-09-30T20:19:47,704 [random-source-pool-0] INFO  org.opensearch.dataprepper.plugins.source.RandomStringSource - Writing to buffer
2021-09-30T20:19:48,207 [random-source-pool-0] INFO  org.opensearch.dataprepper.plugins.source.RandomStringSource - Writing to buffer
2021-09-30T20:19:48,677 [random-source-pool-0] INFO  org.opensearch.dataprepper.plugins.source.RandomStringSource - Writing to buffer
2021-09-30T20:19:49,179 [random-source-pool-0] INFO  org.opensearch.dataprepper.plugins.source.RandomStringSource - Writing to buffer
2021-09-30T20:19:49,181 [simple-test-pipeline-processor-worker-1-thread-1] INFO  org.opensearch.dataprepper.pipeline.ProcessWorker -  simple-test-pipeline Worker: Processing 6 records from buffer
07dc0d37-da2c-447e-a8df-64792095fb72
5ac9b10a-1d21-4306-851a-6fb12f797010
99040c79-e97b-4f1d-a70b-409286f2a671
5319a842-c028-4c17-a613-3ef101bd2bdd
e51e700e-5cab-4f6d-879a-1c3235a77d18
b4ed2d7e-cf9c-4e9d-967c-b18e8af35c90
```

> In another terminal, you can access the Data Prepper server API.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In another terminal, you can access the Data Prepper server API:
```

```
curl https://localhost:4900/list
```

It will output a JSON response with the current pipelines:

```
{"pipelines":[{"name":"simple-test-pipeline"}]}
```

> ## Shutdown

Reviewer 2: "Shut down data prepper"

> You can shutdown Data Prepper either by using the shutdown API, or killing the Docker process.

Reviewer 2: change "killing" to "stopping"

> You can shutdown Data Prepper either by using the shutdown API, or stopping the Docker process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can shut down Data Prepper either by using the shutdown API or by stopping the Docker process:
```

```
curl -X POST https://localhost:4900/shutdown
```

## Adding a processor

> The sample above just demonstrates the bare minimum a pipeline can have: A source sending data to a sink. The example below adds a string converter Processor. This simple processor transforms the string by making it uppercase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sample above just demonstrates the bare minimum a pipeline can have: A source sending data to a sink. The following example adds a string converter Processor. This simple processor transforms the string by making it uppercase.
```

> The sample above just demonstrates the bare minimum a pipeline can have: A source sending data to a sink. The following example adds a string converter processor. This simple processor transforms the string by making it uppercase.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The previous example demonstrates the bare minimum a pipeline can have: a source sending data to a sink. The following example adds a string converter processor. This simple processor transforms the string by making it uppercase:
```

Reviewer 3: Use "above" only for physical space or screen descriptions. For orientation within a document use "previous," "preceding," or "earlier."

Reviewer 3: Are we referring to the most recent example? If not, we need to clarify which example we are referencing.

Author: @oeyh Can you please clarify which example this is referring to?

```
simple-sample-pipeline:
  workers: 2
  delay: "5000"
  source:
    random:
  processor:
    - string_converter:
        upper_case: true
  sink:
    - stdout:
```

Once configured, run Data Prepper again.

> For Data Prepper 2.0 or above, use this command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For Data Prepper 2.0 or later, use this command:
```

```
docker run --name data-prepper -p 4900:4900 -v ${PWD}/pipelines.yaml:/usr/share/data-prepper/pipelines/pipelines.yaml -v ${PWD} /data-prepper-config.yaml:/usr/share/data-prepper/config/data-prepper-config.yaml opensearchproject/data-prepper:latest
```

> For Data Prepper before version 2.0, use this command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For Data Prepper versions previous to 2.0, use this command:
```

```
docker run --name data-prepper -p 4900:4900 -v ${PWD}/pipelines.yaml:/usr/share/data-prepper/pipelines.yaml -v ${PWD}/data-prepper-config.yaml:/usr/share/data-prepper/data-prepper-config.yaml opensearchproject/data-prepper:latest
```

> You will see output that looks like the following.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You will see output that looks like the following:
```

```
2021-10-01T09:58:19,907 [random-source-pool-0] INFO  org.opensearch.dataprepper.plugins.source.RandomStringSource - Writing to buffer
2021-10-01T09:58:19,908 [simple-sample-pipeline-processor-worker-1-thread-1] INFO  org.opensearch.dataprepper.pipeline.ProcessWorker -  simple-sample-pipeline Worker: Processing 6 records from buffer
B77D726E-2B92-458B-8C14-E5F8C403F1B0
6B8FCC48-ED40-462C-8C43-AB218C1DA478
3D0054FB-5D93-444F-A1AC-51827BD4FF37
733D1AB9-2260-42D8-B1F1-08B8D206E06B
EFC73B62-E976-4314-86C8-1E76F7EF9BCC
8D4E7DB3-6D6C-4AB7-925F-5F7C6CCD1058
```

> Shut down Data Prepper.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Shut down Data Prepper:
```

Author: @natebower Do we need to include something at the end of this, like "...by using this curl request"? Or is it sufficient as is?

Reviewer 3: It would be better with the text you've suggested :-).

```
curl -X POST http://localhost:4900/shutdown
```

## Next steps

> This page explains basics of Data Prepper. If you want to setup a useful observability suite, visit the [Trace Analytics documentation](trace_analytics.md).

Reviewer 4: This page explains basics of Data Prepper >> This page includes basic steps for Data Prepper.
"set up" as verb.
(#trace_analytics.md) Might want to add the full {{baseurl}} etc. link.

> This page explains the basics of Data Prepper. If you want to setup a useful observability suite, visit the [Trace Analytics documentation](trace_analytics.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This page explains the basics of Data Prepper. If you want to set up a useful observability suite, visit the [Trace Analytics documentation](trace_analytics.md).
```
